All right, so
we talked about measuring projects and
like work earlier, but
how do you know your team is performing?
It's not necessarily easy.
I think it gets to some of
these more qualitative things.
There's clear goals and
alignment on the work.
People know what they're supposed to do.
There's not a lot of ambiguity.
Or if there is ambiguity,
they know how to work through it.
Cuz I know there's times where I'm putting
people on projects where I'm like,
I don't know all the details
that need to get worked out.
Here's the goals, so
what we're trying to achieve.
And I want people to have
the autonomy to figure it out.
I don't want to dictate it to them.
But it's not this completely ambiguous
thing that they're trying to figure
out all sorts of ends, that's hard.
But if you can say, yeah,
here's the problem at hand.
I don't want to be prescriptive
on how you solve that, but
I am pointing them in a decent
enough direction, hopefully.
Sometimes I don't, and maybe I need
to get more clarity on something.
Your team is executing,
they're delivering,
they're meeting their timelines.
Not perfectly, that's okay.
We have slips, things happen.
One thing I always ask my team is if you
say that you're going to have something
done, August 15,
let's just throw a random date and
it's coming up on that
timeline end of July.
You're like, I am going to miss that
timeline because there was some dependency
I didn't account for, whatever it is.
Just communicate it.
Let's have a conversation on that.
Have a conversation with
your stakeholders, partners,
whoever's involved.
Maybe you can cut scope because you still
need to make that August 15 deadline.
Or maybe it's like,
let's just ship two weeks later.
But I'd rather that than August 15
come up and my team is like, yeah,
we didn't make that timeline.
Like, okay,
why didn't you raise that sooner?
So I think it's like, yeah, as long
as you're executing and delivering.
This is one of my favorite ones,
absolutely one of my favorite
ones is people tell you.
They're like, hey Ryan.
Jem is doing awesome.
I can't believe how impressive what
he just shipped and this is amazing.
I love hearing that.
It's like the unsolicited
positive feedback is great.
People will tell you
when things are bad too.
Oftentimes they don't necessarily, getting
that positive feedback goes above and
beyond and you really hear that,
that's huge.
Not hearing feedback isn't necessarily
meaning that your team isn't performing.
They're probably meeting the expectations,
but
hearing this unsolicited
positive feedback is huge.
I think every individual on
your team should impress you.
I take a look at my team and
I'm like, yeah,
I really like what this person's doing or
not.
And if time and time again
someone's not really quite there,
I would say maybe it's like they're
kind of mediocre or some feeling.
They're doing their job, but
are they impressing me and the team?
And those are things to think about.
And it's hard It's not something
that you're like have a checklist
to make sure that they're
impressing you or the team.
This one came up earlier, but your team is
excited about the work, there's passion.
They want to kind of strive
to make things better.
They're excited.
They're not just, yeah, yeah, we need
to do this for the business, we get it,
whatever.
That's not gonna last long and
you're not doing your best work.
Individuals on your
team should be growing.
They should be growing their skills,
their impact.
It doesn't have to be huge.
They might try new challenges, but
over time you should see them growing,
that they are getting better at
something they're doing and love.
Or they're trying some new
challenging thing they've never done.
But there should be some sign of
growth from individuals on your team.
And guess what,
that's part of your job as an engineering
manager to maybe help with that growth.
It's not entirely on you.
I absolutely say it's a joint partnership,
but
I do think you should be
seeing growth from people.
This is a good one too.
There should be room for healthy debate.
You should be challenging
each other in team meetings,
approaches, in poll requests.
But you want it to be healthy.
You want that trust that people
are able to be vulnerable,
to be wrong, make mistakes.
And when it's toxic, you'll know it.
And I've been there, where it's like,
people are just having heated debate,
hating this person's approach, and it's
really not great for anyone in the team.
Even if it's just two
people butting heads,
and you need to address that quickly.
A lot of things on you know, how do
you know your team is performing, but
I'm sure there's a lot
of things I've missed.
These are some of
the things that I look for.
Curious to the audience,
what are things that you all look for?
Or think of it in a team that you're in,
that you know that it's performing well,
yeah.
>> I think the unsolicited
feedback from other people.
I think unsolicited positive feedback
within the team is a good key sign.
>> Yeah, I've seen on teams and
I've done this on my own,
where even just having kudos in
team meetings and things like that.
And just kind of leaving
that open ended for
someone to be like, thanks Mark helped
me on this pull request, unblocked me so
well, and just being able to celebrate
those things are really cool.
I like that one, good.
>> Yeah, to add on to the individuals
that are growing their skills and impact.
Also helping grow the skills
of your coworkers,
being a mentor and bringing-
>> Yes.
>> Having everybody kind of level up.
>> Yeah, giving back and
like also leveling up other
people's skills when you're like,
I'm really good at hiring, I want to
go help others do that, that's awesome.
And also your team is thankful for
it too cuz they're getting
better at something as well.
I like that.
>> This kind of fits into
the room probably debate, but
having a psychologically safe team and
meetings and all that and culture.
One of the highest performing
teams I've been a part of,
we were relentless and
pretty ruthless in terms of our candor,
in terms of this thing's not
ready to work on, moving on.
We're not gonna waste time
on it until it's ready.
>> Yeah, and
that's something that takes time.
But as a manager,
I think there's ways in which you can
help foster that psychological safety.
I do cover that I think in the feedback
portion too cuz I think that's really
important to just be able to be
comfortable giving one another feedback
is there has to be that psychological
safety and vulnerability too.
>> That seems to me like a bit of
a loaded term, psychological safety,
because I've heard it used in
several different contexts,
meaning completely things, right?
So from my perspective, a high performing
team is debating about the right things.
They're putting the end user experience or
the product first.
And then they're debating over like,
what is the best way to accomplish that?
Rather than, I don't know,
there's other interpretations of that.
I think to me it means it's okay to fail,
it's okay to give feedback.
You're not possessive over your idea,
it's like we're trying to make the best
idea when and we're trying to learn from
each other, we're all on the same team.
And I think that that's
what it means to me and
that's what I've seen it's used good.
But I've also seen the reverse where
it's used in a way it's not that,
it's something completely different.
I don't know, you know what I mean?
>> Yeah, no, I think you the way you
define it is absolutely the way I think
about it in a team dynamic and
just feeling comfortable to make mistakes,
give feedback, and
without repercussion, right?
I like what you said Mark on the your end
state, you're building a user experience,
you're building a product, it's for
your users or whatever it may be, and
that's your common goal, right?
And there's different
approaches to get there.
And I might really wanna do this one
technical approach or use this library and
someone else's passion
about this other library.
And it's okay that we disagree on that,
but how do you come to gather on that?
And it's working through the trade-offs.
Neither one of those is
probably the right answer.
There's no perfect solution, but
how can you kind of get there and
feel comfortable doing that together?
And then just being like,
yeah, you're right, I'm wrong.
Let's go with that approach.
>> At least I respect your decision.
>> That too, yes.
>> You respect your colleague's
intelligence and be like, yeah,
let's try that.
And let's go down that path.
And if it doesn't work,
then we'll try my idea.
>> Yeah.
>> It's fine,
we just need to start somewhere, and yeah,
that's the best co-worker experience
ever is when people are just not so
possessive over their choice, or whatever.
It's like, hey, yeah,
let's try that, maybe it is.
Let's go forward.
>> Here's another one, too.
Even if you go with that said approach,
it's actually the wrong
one in the end state.
If you don't need to be
that person I told you so.
Right, cuz that's not great either.
It's like cool, I mean, we tried that,
I was on board with that,
even though I had another approach.
I agreed we went down that road and
it's a team dynamic to go back
the other way if we need to.
>> And if you handle that correctly,
guess what,
they're gonna trust you
more the next time.
That decision needs to be made.
So you're building trust over time if
you're not holding it over somebody else.
>> Absolutely, so it is all these things,
it's healthiness, and trust, and
everything.
And yeah,
being able to be vulnerable too, is like,
I don't know how to write this,
or deal with this library.
Can you help me?
And not feeling like you're
getting judged for that.
Cuz we all have different skill sets and
as a team,
we wanna lean on one another for that.
>> Mistakes also produce growth
is something someone said, so
then identifying them must be okay and
be available for
learning or
places where the team can learn.
Someone else said in their opinion, it
also means that people are not afraid to
prioritize input and
participate in the conversations.
They know that they won't get
bashed when they make a mistake or
when they even make the smallest
mistake and someone else responded.
Feedback produces growth.
It's not necessarily a threat and
it should be expected to be received.
>> So many good points there.
I have comments on a few of them.
To the feedback one,
I truly believe feedback is a gift.
It may seem cheesy, but it is.
I'm not giving someone feedback
because I wanna slam them.
I probably will avoid, if I don't want
someone to get better, I'm probably not
gonna even bother giving the feedback
cuz it's not easy to give feedback.
It is actually work.
And to me, I'm like, I'm giving someone
feedback cuz I see something that I think
they can do better at and
I want to help them get better.
So that's a good one.
And then on the mistakes,
I think about it is maybe as a leader,
can you celebrate mistakes and really
just encourage that make that it's okay.
I often try and just share my
own stupid mistakes and try and
make people okay with that.
And it's helpful to do that,is just
putting yourself out there and
it encourages others to do the same.